now hi everyone welcome to the dynamic
data and capabilities working group
bi-weekly meeting of October 16th I
think welcome so I'm going to share my
screen so we can all see the notes okay
so all right cool so if everyone could
put the name on the list of attendees
and he's someone and someone volunteer
to take notes today I was the last one
so like when people are speaking just
just taking milk I think it's ray has
the right face to do it it's not I mean
just just reiterate I'm with a lot of
windows open but I can try if you're
some prices but all the person is is
presenting you don't need to write notes
it's just for for discussion parts and
questions that that may arise at the end
of it which person cool so all right so
I'll start so this last last two weeks
were mostly filled with preparation for
protocol protocol a protocol week and
ipfs days which happen in Glasgow last
week so some people are still recovering
from jet lag for that and a lot of
interesting discussions mostly on the FS
days
segue into the discussion of persistent
strategies for pierced are related
applications a lot of things were
discussed there's a bunch of issues on
aren't pierced Iraq
well there's one issue on the requests
on Pierce Arab and a lot of talks with a
Dean and a dirt is not present
can someone there's someone with a
microphone they can muted I'm hearing
sirens thank you authorities so that
there is this issue we're all primitive
values are unique in JavaScript so to
set value neatness is based on that
JavaScript uniqueness some people
complained about that and rightfully and
so right now the started there's a pull
request waiting to happen
strategy to use the hash value of the
object to determine the key for that
objects for being unique in in asset and
this has implications are multiple
different reality types at the ones that
implement sets and the ones that use a
dot set for implementing some some see
oddity so there's a like the there's a
discussion also happening here for
object uniqueness if you want to chime
in if you have an opinion your opinion
is appreciated right now the strategy is
like I said use a hash value for that
and so I'm hoping that someone will
review it I tagged and but I wish to
review it if you have time also anyone
that is interested in the image I mean I
also some other work on PSR at which is
work that I was doing started doing on
last call which is the gossip Pierre
addresses in bed in a strong eventual
consistent manner I'm mostly a work in
progress and at the face of Eddie unit
tests for membership and discoverability
so that things are instead of testing
this using integration tests I'm going
to isolate this into tests that are
specific for for membership and
simulates all the dependencies outside
of of the thing that we're testing and
my plan for next week is to continue on
on these two and most probably the most
probably on finishing the gossip Pierre
Gosling the peer addresses in a correct
way and that's it for me any question
yeah I got a question regarding the
uniqueness and you talked about the sets
so you said you're using some kind of
function that slashes an object and
computes the the the value for it and
use it as an identifier of the the entry
are you planning on adding a feature to
customize that behavior so that users
can specify the ID themselves yes so if
you there's like this is a compiled
convention but I introduced it is
documented if the user specifies that
it's an object and the user specifies
the hashcode attribute so we're going to
use that instead to signify the key for
the for the object on primitive values
like integers and strings and billions
I'm still using the default behavior
which is the value myself okay cool so
that means that the hash codes must be
serialized or it must be sterilized and
be part of security and so the hash code
is so that the the the hash code is yeah
in that case hush could be the part of
the the value that's abided on on the
celerity itself correct okay this one
minor thing did you think about the user
making the hash code property known
known in normal enumerable so that it
doesn't appear in console logs and and
stuff like that and if so have you
thought about when you dis realizing the
state that is being replicated to also
put it as you know in umaril or is just
that i'm complicating stuff just by
saying that no i was thinking about that
but the thing is is the marshaling and
marshaling strategy that we're using
right now doesn't support that doesn't
support does it think out that in in the
civilization I'm not sure what what
solutions could could be there if you
can think of one that is usable or just
just be like blunt and if there's a hash
code we just make it non enumerable and
I mean yeah I just raise the dead up
because usually people don't use that
property for uniqueness they use
something like ID or in my case CID and
so on so people have to put that
property into the objects themselves and
whose willy people put put them non
enumerable so that don't they don't
really belong to the objects and he's
being used just by by pier star to to
identify the items but it's something
that's you can discuss afterwards yes
I've been thinking of like a user
profile function a hashing function for
instance so basically as convention by
ism and more more customizable so yeah
just just I mean into the discussion
will will factor this
comment on this yeah okay so I think I
think it's me now yeah it's just any
more questions about about this stuff
no all right so okay okay so for for
everyone that doesn't know I'm working
on discussing Phi which is decentralized
up where you are able to comment on any
site I'm developing an extension for
Chrome and Firefox so in my previous
during these these two weeks I've
concluded with the five months of the
application itself including but not
limited to 20 factor that I've made so
that we ducks that I was using in the
background script as well as this
license themselves and the slices by
slices I mean the side bar dot Education
the mains the main script set has the
the D on the bottom so this license
don't use with ax anymore they use react
react component that connects to the
background script and pulls the states
continuously and in listen cottage state
changes as well
so the redux is only is only on the
background script now this is Jesus
required simple final order of things
I've also completed the polite and
remove comments feature in the wide the
user interface I've set up the peer
stirrup library in there in the
background script so if you guys
remember in the last you know last call
I was in doubt I had my doubts regarding
the type FS being incinerated in in each
table and we settle on having just one
one peer startup business and one ffs
instance running on the back home script
and I've set up
and also some minor pull requests that
I've made on pure startup there's an
example up that shows the counter and a
discussion three and and some other
entities types reality types I've fixed
the example up because it wasn't running
and by fixing I mean I operated to
create a laptop version 2.0 and fix it
some little errors that was preventing
me from pushing the code that's it in
progress I'm currently working on the CR
DT data model for the comments I sadly
based on the on the example that Pedro
has made on the example up which is
called a discussion 3 CR DT I think but
I need to help support for updates
removals and also the history and that
means that whenever you edit and remove
it's easy to to get those entries from
the CR DT so that we can display a
history of changes in each comments
similar to how it shows whenever the
user edits the comments you can go there
and see the history you will also be
able to do that and that's it and for my
next steps after this is to implement
the replies in the user interface
I've skip this one and and went through
and through the in end to the CEO duty
on a model first I need to implement the
show history in the user interface that
will use their history derived missions
and also I will I will hopefully had
persistence of the data based on the
work that Pedro I know patron team and I
think lyric as well are are working on
the persistence layer so hopefully that
will be easy to do it on discuss if I as
well and I think that's it
is there any questions
yep I have one question well just kind
of more of a comment
so the this results part I think is
really interesting probably there is
some collateral open-source potential
here and also potential for all the part
that you're doing pure syrup on the
background script because I think that
you're going to support multiple
collaborations and then stopping and
starting the the peer star at part so I
think there there's the potential for
not in right now
probably but but in the future to spawn
off some things that will make life
easier for developers that either is
reduction or required this decentralized
model of having multiple DFS instances
on different tabs if they're reusing an
either a service worker or well service
or not exactly what background
background scripts these problems
regarding the ipfs instances it's not
only related to extensions it made just
more evident but if you think about if
using a profess on the on the web right
now you have at least 20 per fess
instance per tab and that's that's not
really the way it should work it was
just by having one instance that's why
there is the extension where you can use
the your demon they're installed is
installed on your computer and that's
the only ace to instance running but of
course that will require users to have
annexation and I think as I told in some
previous meeting there's a working group
that wants to take on that by using
a bridge so especially when you're using
the preference on each tab
it isn't IPF assistance itself it's just
some proxy to a service worker running
on ipfs domain and it behaves like one
but it isn't the profess instance it's
running just a one instance per browser
that's the real the real deal there and
hopefully the working group responsible
for that I think it's the browser's
working group will eventually on the
next quarter tackle that it's not
scheduled for this quarter but hopefully
it will be soon issue
so yes the Service Worker gateway and
pattern is is I think a really
interesting one thing is that we don't
pierce our app is not supported on that
model because we're using a custom
protocol but if they can provide like if
you can like push for approval or
supporting custom we b2b protocols on
top of that of that proxy model I think
we could use that even even if it
doesn't support we could put like if
it's well done and configurable we could
deploy our own interface with a custom
protocol on some difference on some
other domain like pierced our domain and
use that instead for all the peer
startups or if the or even J is that I
but ipfs that I oh yeah like like
currently you have that there all right
any more questions
just
finally I will I will push this weekend
and the next one
to have the disunity not a model ready
and stable so that we can present it on
on mas fest which wish I will attend
with Pedro and will give a talk there so
hopefully I will have this sorted out
and ready to be presented there yes all
right good stuff now I did is is new to
protocol abs and this working group
welcome again could you introduce
yourself and hi yeah so I I just started
with protocol abs last week I'm in the
Boston area have been working on
encrypted real-time collaboration for
like for so years now in a like a
desktop environment
it's like integrated into your file
system and still like Word and
PowerPoint and that sort of stuff and
I'm gonna be working on for now I guess
we can call it multi writer IP NS but
basically this idea that somehow I need
to propagate changes to multiple I need
multiple people to simultaneously be
able to make changes and have one of
them not Club or the other one as what
happen right now with IP NS the current
model that I'm looking at after talking
with a few people last week including
Pedro Stephen and and Cole are basically
leveraging the fact that we already have
a group of people because we're using
encryption a group of people that we
want to share with and using those
encryption keys as sort of your pure
ideas to go find people um the idea
being you already know who you're
sharing with so why don't you just use
their peer IDs to identify the nodes
instead of
Groupon your own instead of using
pub/sub and broadcasting out so for now
I'm just trying to understand and get a
grip of the NGO libraries and and Lib
p2p and get all of that working and once
I can get a basic group up and running
then I'll start putting together the the
protocol for how I want to propagate you
know probably get the updates and and
sort of synchronize the different graphs
so that you don't have to keep keep
quite everything um so you may you may
expect some some showing up on various
various threads I I just got referenced
on on one of the threads that are Dirk
is working on and there's there's
another thread there's like an there's
another another thread from the NGO
library that's that's coming back from
about a year so trying to help move
those things forward and hopefully
bridge a little bit between the NGO side
and the j/s side yeah so any any
questions I don't have a question
exactly but that's great news if
someone's working honest so uh yeah I'm
excited and I was involved with
implementing some bits of the bigger
version of my penis so feel free to ask
any questions excellent Thanks yeah I'm
really excited to see you're working on
that yeah it's clear is interesting
subsea so trying to bridge the gap
between between my PFS itself and having
some of these collaborative things
potentially go into the infrastructure
itself is quite exciting I mean yeah
like one of the one of the UH one of the
reports I'm looking at is under the like
the go flood sub library that started in
like October 2017 is when uh the
requests started these phones have been
going on for
while so knowing that there's like a few
people that are involved that I can
reach out to for resources to help try
and actually hold this thing somewhere
is is really good so it expect to be
bothered
super and and just just as a side thing
there's a bunch of things that that are
potentially going to allow us to
converge more to that BFS infrastructure
so already mentioned in the I think last
few calls
rendezvous protocol which was also
discussed in last week the evolution of
the rendezvous protocol which is
something that will replace the HD for
this come from discoverability so for
discovery service discovery discovery
discovery and it will be as the last
discussion it will be federated protocol
so you can have multiple of this
discovery not well-known discovery
endpoints and so that they don't based
on not a unique point of failure and
some discussions over how to prevent
some types of attacks also minutes so
the protocol is not closed itself but
it's it's it's is very good to know that
it's actually being worked on and the
other one is also circuitry like with
with that so we can have like the NOS
required web sockets star or web sockets
anything or sorry or whatever to see
star for instance and just being able to
relay and find out through the circuit
relay that is going to be provided by
well-known Wow discovered discoverable
peers on the network potentially using
also the rendezvous protocol for finding
those those peers that are able to rely
that will help the Jas side of things
were where we need to we're very limited
in discoverability were very limited in
well in the browser at least very
limited in discoverability are limited
in in how to connect to each other so
this is exciting also that bridges the
gap and allows us to cover
tomorr with the global ipfs
infrastructure cool so I'm running more
questions for Dean
No alright so address Sousa Europe
I think it's Jim first or right so the
order of the of the notes out now go
ahead yeah
yeah I'll just move my block up no sorry
guys that's probably me
okay so before I went to lab week a fix
I had a bunch of fixes in the tree I'm
working on for the pure pad Nano and I
put them into the peer strap and Pedram
fixed merged them in they're mostly sort
of really sort of blatant sort of bugs
so they weren't they weren't challenging
like the design of anything so I think
they're pretty easy to put in and then
spent the whole week in Glasgow at the
All Hands protocol lab week thing and I
give a presentation they should be
recorded where I demoed the pure pad
nano and the little little Pierce and
there's still some bugs I was digging
into it and I know it's getting like
hundreds of messages per second even
when we were just sitting there idle so
I we did some experiments and turning
off the the pitting peers I had to set
up so those seem to be causing it I
think there's some sort of cascade
happening so I'm gonna that's gonna be
the first thing you're going to look at
this week and beyond that I just wanted
to do a little bit more work on the sort
of be able to have a little bit more
observer ability into what's happening
with the connections cuz that's where
all the crazy stuffs happening and maybe
sort of like define it a little bit more
so I can maybe document a little bit
more so I can sort of tell when it does
this is it supposed to do that or was
that what the design was and then beyond
that I think probably
very curious about this rendezvous
protocol and what we're gonna do for
that and also the stuff that Dirk's
doing with the pinning and we had some
discussion before about how should stuff
be persistent persisted in IP LD so
go any questions for Jim if I've not not
the questions it's just that yeah come
on over conference again for the Pinner
maybe surfacing membership cycle
membership override cycle on the Sunda
memberships charity
I think I'm detective that's why I
resorted to to go into the unit tests
for the membership and trying to isolate
this I think if I conclude my work in
time we also have your bug fixed if the
causes is the membership but I encourage
you to dig into more into exactly why
probably those will be membership gossip
message yeah that you're getting I'm
almost sure yeah but check that link I'm
gonna actually show some representation
of the CR DT in the UI so I can just see
if something's happening there yes you
should see the the reflection should see
that inside the memberships charity
there's a bunch of vector clocks and you
should see the vector clock counts like
going up really fast
it's at least what I saw on certain
occasions so if that's that's the case
just ping me when and we can work once
you detect the cause we can work through
if that's the me any more questions for
Jim so it's my comment cool so now is
the bride Susan okay so for this week I
was focused more on pure path in terms
of UX and UI this is the uncritical crib
that it will be presented all my okay
ours regarding the topic number five
which is p r-- bad so i created a live
demo where at which i will display
afterwards the regarding the some some
details for the app let me just name a
few so overall the wage structure in
improvement I'm now taking advantage of
the viewports to accommodate more
details so better organization on those
pages as well
I make the alpha banner this mis'able
the position of the toggle between the
code view and the live view is now
centered on the screen which is much
more related with the section below the
part where you can edit the there's a
notification which will be displayed
every time that the user joins the
document and a much more friendly
approach regarding the users evaluation
I mean if there's one person online or
two persons there's a new way to display
that information maybe I can display and
just share my screen right now so you
can follow through the video it's which
will be much better for me yeah where is
the share screen share here is it let me
know once you can see my screen can you
can see yep yeah
okay so I'll play the video and then I
can pause it one any any single moment
that is quite different from what is
being implemented right now okay this is
the current structure as I said
previously the skinny mark banner might
be this mis'able so it's not so
permanent on the page this this relation
between the toggles and the section
underneath I think it's much better
you can hide one and display the other
and you have a message that display when
was the file created and every single
addition on the file itself will be will
be revealed on that on that side on that
part there to here there's a possibility
to rename the documents much more
friendly and related with the they added
itself
this was the notification I was
referring to so there's a one person
online and then someone just
you have a notification number increases
your both are online you can hover and
see which which person has has entered
you can yeah edit your name set it and
once it will be set you can just have
the option to change it because this is
the first time you do this action you
don't need to have that as a repeat step
so the unpure path right now there's
always the option to set your name set
their name that's it's really weird and
then yeah just a small change between
what is implanted implemented right now
the offline has this dot associated with
the gray area and yeah I was just taking
advantage for of the the screen and try
to accommodate everything a bit better
and well organised right now another
detail led I'm working on it's the
history I just started like off an hour
ago and yeah you have a new new hiking
here which is the version history itself
and then a drawer will appear you can
show changes on the documents itself
just like Google Docs does it like with
a highlight color I like between any
user imagine that okay this version was
changed by shadows or you will have like
a rectangle with this color and then
just look like github so does when you
add or remove something yeah just try to
accommodate those relations of colors
with the changes itself and yeah for now
that's that's it is a two day work so
any comments any questions I have one
question which is you probably didn't
actually started it yet but we have you
thought about having an indicator for
each pier so that you know that they
like this changes that you actually you
can see here because I'm not revealing
my indicator but once you edit the file
you can see in here in in the bottom
last edited a few seconds ago
and then the the Type Indicator it's
right here
oh I don't mean that I pick the type
indicator I mean them the propagation of
the changes so we have five like
everyone on this on this call are
editing these documents and perhaps
Pedro is having a slow connection or is
momentarily offline I want to know if my
changes were propagated to everyone and
if if it doesn't who didn't have the
changes okay okay that that will meet
the last so two bullet points that I've
placed on Creek pad which is the
persistency the data okay let me just
stop the share screen which is so yeah
I'm locked on the it's clear that where
data is persisted and it's clear when
that sorry where data is persisted and
it's clear when that these procedures I
have a few questions regarding is it's
the first one it's the how does this
will influence design and look okay and
I approach regarding these two points to
understand what should I do
afterwards I can I can answer that well
but was partially so I think that
there's a bunch of interesting UX things
we can do but I think the really useful
thing is like I said you know the sphere
X have my my latest changes that's one
indicator that is useful when we're
collaborating to know to know that and
the other is is this persistent on if I
close my laptop and I give the link URL
to the to the pair to someone else will
they get the the latest changes so that
goes those are the two I think the two
main ones
which we can we can 1 we can the first
one we can I think we can already
extract from from currently we can
expose that in in the Pierre part
sorry a pierced our app API and the last
one is all fully a consequence of all
the persistence of the persistence
solution that that we do and I think I
think those are the interesting ones
there another another pattern that that
I thought of could be interesting but
this is app for discussion and I like er
my changes like propagated to more than
half for instance of my of my membership
and this is may be useful or behalf like
if the percent is like as good as any
I'd say I mean arbitrary number here or
everyone for instance everyone in the
collaboration before just to
collaborating 50 percent it's just it's
just me
so something do to keep me in the back
of your heads
I think the first the first one is first
you are really important the last one
maybe in the absence of of real
persistence maybe something that is
interesting interesting to have as an
intermediary step like probability of
puff of being persistent is is higher so
that's that's something that people will
you I you expect them that is not not
well be fine because people are used to
centralized safety safes and they it's
not any kind of option this like the
save moment when even creep pad does it
right once you change everything it will
just appear safe hmm yeah because the
quick publicist is centralized is
secreted but it's okay
I will I will give my opinion if
possible wishes we should think about
the the point that Pedro raised as
possibly as a pact solution instead of
resolving each one separately so this is
something that as Butler says doesn't
happen in centralize world because in
centralized rules we just have a server
and things are persistent there and once
you get a confirmation that is persisted
it's all fine so it's just one one one
thing to worry about but when we are
dealing with decentralize there's two
options or three we we either have a
persistence disabled and my persistence
disabled I mean there's no like no the
persisting the data and then the today
they persisted by the peer themselves
and there's also another scenario which
is having both combine which is both
peers and both dedicated no to
persistent persistence and there's
another scenario which is just the
persistence notes and you are alone
editing the W so I think all these three
things should be combined in a new why
wax pattern that's not only will will
work for pure star pure pure path sorry
but also for the specify and and other
other other interfaces as well all our
other apps as well so don't we don't
really need to repeat them or make
different Y approaches for these kind of
problems we should look into develop a
unified approach to all of these and
triplicate and reuse that great
applications yeah yeah this this reuse
can can can be can be encode or can be
just just in in the pattern where we can
experiment with plan and see what works
and doesn't but III agree and it's very
exciting to explore to explore these
patterns these new patterns that are
that are emerging I think also we can
see what what other apps are
we like bears textile for photos there
is a bunch of other things if they
provide this feedback mechanism or not
and if they don't what Lots they like to
build the builders opinion on this
like we bring more people into the
conversation I think it could be also
useful because they they may have
different different requirements and and
we all we want to surface those those
you wax patterns into the API that we're
going to provide on on fear on pure
syrup and other solutions we but but we
well we want to accommodate want to grow
may make the wax patterns grow so yeah
we thank you I mean as long as we're
supposed to correct the correct events
on
I think people then can implement
different different patterns I mean you
can if you're dependent on depending on
the type of collaboration that that
you're having you can have different
requirements if it's just photo sharing
virtually consistent thing that takes a
long time if it's text it's more real
time more of a real time thing if it's
geared so as they're just working on on
a guitar like saying probably different
a bit of different requirements so I
think that's that's it
Pedro correct me if I'm wrong but just
to point out that the persistence part
is is running on a note there is itself
another peer correct
I had the current solution the solution
that we have for that's for PSR at its
that they're very centralized approach
the dirty keys is for instance I think
is more of a fan of a decentralized
approach and then there is the morson
will not centralized like like you pay
for persistence or you have someone aged
you want persistence or you set up as a
service that helps you on doing the the
persistent part for for your
collaborations for instance so we have
these two different approaches
strategies for furthering persistence
which I think are two valid approaches
so to will and basically they implement
they will surface two differently wax
pattern which is you you're pointing out
the sort of doing the text highlighting
for who made what changes and I was
wondering if you have any thoughts or
just fun that you you may run into
issues with the Delta C Rd tease because
when you squash them you're not gonna
know who you may not know who made the
changes or if you did then you missing
signatures missing signatures might be
okay but you're gonna you may lose that
data as well cuz like if I make an fi
out an A and you add a B and they get
squashed together and adding a B then
it's only gonna be the Squasher whose
text color shows up I don't know how we
feel about that but just something I
wanted to bring up yeah I think wait we
can't overlook no no no go ahead go
ahead
now is it just just say that there's
options in so I was just yeah that was
one of my points against the Delta
charities initially it was well what
about history
what about authorship and but the thing
is that that you can control well you
have to control it at the edges but you
can't control whether to to to merge the
deltas or not so it's kind of a choice
like I tried off if you want to keep you
can keep history up to a certain point
and then just course the rest going
going back we have we have a bunch of
options also you can embed like we can
do wealth we can embed some history like
a side channel if you will but in in
terms of like a side sanity with with
history that is causally consistent with
with the other one which resemble more
of an operation by sanity and there's a
bunch of options I just wanted to like
surface that it was gonna play into the
u.s. that's that's it's a real concern
and there was a I was trying to reply
but I seen a detail today that which is
the snapshot concept for any change that
is created on a document where you can
like create a stack of this was changed
today but inside of today you ever add
another level of history inside over
they imagine it creates more than just
one level than history and then you can
almost save it and then just continue
with an other change yeah it's a bit
messy but it works
right I think we'll have to do some some
research on that it's it seems to me
like like okay you could have Delta
compression will we have to obey those
rules if you want like have like very
coarse grain for the last month and less
more fine grain for the last week or and
very character-based grain for the very
recent stuff but that's that's a lot of
some research that has to be done on how
to implement the facilities on this way
that's I haven't seen it done anywhere
in terms of the of the academic research
any more questions for Andre
so Derek Europe
oh um so yes as you guys have mentioned
I've been working on trying to implement
a kind of proof of concepts for
persistence um and firstly I just want
to say thank you everyone do like
inputed and gave comments and stuff you
made some really nice diagrams and stuff
and a bunch of people put in comments so
thank you for that work so um there's
sort of like a lot of different
variables and autoclave ways of doing
this so I decided to choose something
very specific and you come at it as a
proof of concept and basically the
scenario is that a bunch of people are
making changes to southern CRT to let's
say it's a bad document then everyone
goes offline and then someone comes
online again or someone new and they
need to be able to see all everything
that's happened or at least the current
state of the document so messed up as
always mentioning there's kind of like a
couple of different options we could
have a persistent service that's a
single entity that's running all the
time and which is kind of what the
pinning services and then another option
is that we can have a service that runs
within each node and and so each node
has a service that can persist its local
changes plus any state that it sees that
comes in across the network so the nice
thing about that approach is that you
don't have to rely on some external
service to be up all the time but it
means that you need to have a reliable
persistent service that is essentially
all of the time and so the choice we've
gone with for now is my DNS which is
essentially just a naming service so I'm
excited that a team is working on multi
writer IP NS because that's gonna take
care of a bunch of concurrency problems
that we have and so for the time being
there's a couple of strategies that
we're using to use single writer IP NS
one of those is
basically that we have two levels of IP
and X record one keeps track of all the
participants or the members and then at
the second level each member has their
own IP n s key which they write their
local state and the local updates to and
so when a new member comes in they get
the first level IP NS record find all
the members and then query each of the
members IP s keys to get each of the
individual states imagine the second
option we're working on is to elect a
leader and so there's only one node
that's persisting everything basically
and then when that node disappears or
goes offline the other nodes detect that
and they elect a new leader um so the
nice thing about that approach is that
because the state is already being sent
around and everyone is sharing the same
state at the collaboration level through
gossip we can kind of sidestep having to
every single node having to record the
same information so it's just a single
leader
so both of these strategies work fine as
long as there is no partition in the
network once we do have a partition
there is a couple of different scenarios
depending if we're doing a leader
election or if every node is writing and
I've kind of outlined those scenarios in
the PR so you can have a look in that
and your comments to them but the nice
thing about the gusset protocol is it
ends up just kind of peeling everything
in the end as long as there's and node
on each side of the partition comes
alive at some stage you can guarantee
the state will converge
Thank You Dirk okay could you could you
link the the PR so people then see this
offline can thank you any questions for
them then is the PR gonna be for
discussion fair well it's not
something's been a bit merged straight
away as it
yeah for sure I mean I'm kind of like
trying out a few different things in
that PR so I see it very much a Wiccan
Fergus and love to hear you guys
comments and kind of suggestions on
different strategies my guess is I'll
probably end up implementing it a few
different ways and then we can try them
out and see what works best with the IP
NS and JavaScript definitely tried it
yet it did my understand only works to
one note or something it doesn't yes
you're right thank you got to mention
that at the moment I pns will only work
locally essentially it's for any anyone
who's sharing this store the data store
within my penis which is anyone who's on
the same boat but as I understand it if
they're working on connecting up IPS
with the DHT as well as I penis with
first up can you speak one of that
bitter yes the the Jessica fest and we
are working on that so that between this
weekend and next week
they am to have the DHT sorted out and
then they can link the mechanist with
the HT quite easily
I think after after that and so so that
there's there's this whole DHT never
that I can link to I have to find it
first there's a like an awesome endeavor
which a name that JSF FS at least seems
describe like things that span multiple
issues and pull requests the DHT part to
awesome endeavor is is that that that
lasts
step required for initially to be to be
usable on GFS and from then on as I said
a penis that uses the DT or before that
they also are implementing a penis
gossip through a penis closets through
pops up I believe that's also one I
think that they're actively working in
so yeah it's looking at it's a hard it's
a hard Walker for you I believe they're
right well yeah I mean let's say it's a
hot pocket for this current
implementation of the position service
but I'm kind of stifling the
experimentation stage so you know it's
possible that we might even go with a
solution that doesn't use IPs
it'd be nice if we could use it so I
just kind of disconnected there a little
but my part of what I gathered when I
was talking people last week was that
there is this process thought where
pns is sort of public in the sense that
you're trying to like broadcast
information to the world so like a
website where there's a single writer
then they update it and then that data
gets propagated out and then you start
getting into questions of how do I get a
random person on the Internet to refresh
my entry in the DHD and then there's
perhaps another model which is more like
what we're talking about where you
actually know who the peers you're
talking to are so I kind of feel you and
that IP multi writer ITN s feels feels
better because it feels like it's the
naming system let's just have this
multiple naming system thing and but if
there's this idea that I'm I'm still
processing right now about whether it
makes sense to use something else
because we're not really trying to
broadcast for information to everyone
we're more trying to sustain it for this
group that already knows about each
other
that may be overly limiting and by but
it's one idea yeah it's a good point
I think it would be nice if someone who
has never been part of the group can
come online and and and and retrieve the
state for this particular case so in
that sense I think we do want it to be
sort of publicly available
you
I guess to clarify what I meant is uh
there's some sort of external what call
it state there's some sort of external
state that has to get to you anyway as a
function of me sharing with you all
right especially for using encryption
and I need to get you an encryption key
of some sort or or just let you know
that by the way this file has been
shared with you in the same way that
Dropbox or whoever like they send you an
email letting you know there's a new
file so there may be some sort of
external information that can be
embedded in that method
and I think that that you know he can't
see the air quotes but that external
method that I'm talking about should
eventually be part of ipn I like be part
of the protocol was data that's stored
on IPSS whether that looks like you know
sort of internal like email over IP FS
or some sort of basic chat over IP FS
that lets you know hey there's this new
file
or or similarly if I want to like kick
someone off a document if I want to do
revocation saying okay I can't change
the IP n s key but I can point you at
this new IP n s key for this new group
that's - the person I just kicked off
and you use your sort of internal email
to say hey here's the new key let's
let's do is let's do this whole thing
again but like without pedra this time
that sort of thing
so it's tricky but I think there's
there's like enough information flow
around that we may not want to use IPS
except when we have to for instance if
Li you may actually want for things like
access control groups the last rider
wins semantics of IP ns
so I don't know where them how what the
exact right ways to get the multi writer
in is but it may not be in exactly the
same
we'll call developer interface as like
you know instead of key-value it's key
multi-value it may be something that
looks a little different you know that
make sense to me we can talk about it
more more offline but that was sort of
the idea I want to surface you're right
I think that makes sense and I agree
that it's we have to be careful not to
like you know change IP NS into
something that works for us but then
doesn't work for everyone else so it's
got to be a little bit more future-proof
yeah absolutely all right
any more questions
for Dirk
just one one thing I have a quick quick
Lokhande on the pull request and just to
to see if I'm correct the current
implementation Allah allows people or
developers to add new persistence
implementations of strategies because
I've seen there's a main memory
implementation and there's another one
that there is IPS so developers can just
add new persistence implementations
because there's a common interface right
yeah so the way I wrote it
I've tried to break it out conceptually
so you have what I call persistence
which is really content and wrestled
resistance meaning ipfs and then there's
naming which is how you actually refer
to the head and with exactly that idea
that we can experiment with different
strategies so I'm using the memory
persistence and memory naming just for
testing at the moment and then I have
written ipfs is kind of like the pod
implementation of the content
addressable persistence and i pns is the
hot integrated implementation of the
naming yeah I'd like to try with a few
different kinds of strategy there for
example we might want to use a different
naming strategy that supports multi
write in a more natural way oh yeah
yeah even like if if a particular
application wants to go for the
centralized approach for a specific use
case it will be good to just implement
the interface and specify the strategy
and it will just work out and call the
functions of the implementation and if
it's well done it will just work out for
everyone
this is more like a future-proof in the
sense that it allows has to add new
strategies that we might not be sure
about them right now but we could
experiment them with them but just
providing an option hey this is a
persistent instance that has these
methods and the underlying pure star
just calls them and it will work out
yeah I think it's a good idea in
particular for the naming side of things
because at the moment IPS at least in a
go implementation is kind of struggling
performance wise so I think it'd be good
to experiment with different stuff there
and allow clients to choose
I think these
so persistent problem that we are trying
persistence problems trying to solve is
a is a lot of its complexity there's a
lot of options to go into for instance a
Dean mission that and mission the the
thing about using not using a penis and
immediately I thought about if you think
about documents that you share between
your friends or our colleagues you
already know them and if they provide a
storage there is persistence and is
always online you can always retrieve
the latest state four of them and merge
all together using the Delta Z oddities
join mechanism just to you know to to
merge all the state of your of the
people that are working on the document
and it will work out we don't need
twelve like a single source of truth of
the state but as you might assume as
image there's a strategy these decent
another strategy and we might want to
experiment with other strategies that we
with Arendt's think about right now and
I think that would be good to add into
the they pierced our interface to
emission something there's a project
that belongs to the thief thief
foundation decentralize Ida Foundation
which is essentially a storage storage
service for that each user can run on
its own machine and of course there will
be service providers where people can
host their or you can run on your
computer whatever and if you think about
what what adding sets it could be a
strategy so you have this storage that
each user
that's edited the document or belongs to
the documents is reliable and always
online you can just query the lightest
Titan pooling and merge to say together
that will be a perfectly
valid solution of course it won't be
using IP NS or FS capabilities and so on
it will probably using I don't know
something like HTTP and and some key
value storage underneath to sort the the
information but it is essentially
centralized because every every peer
provides the storage to to which we even
start states so the state comes from the
people and not from a centralized and
service or something like that yeah it
makes me think that the way that we use
ipfs at the moment in here star is we're
really only just using a small part of
it right is that right better basically
just yeah we're just using the only p2p
which is still liquid to be thing we're
just exposing a PFS because some apps
require ipfs itself so they don't have
to build map EFS nodes
that's correct yes in that case I wonder
you know down the track we could we
could make all of these components kind
of pluggable I think there's there's a
lot of room for experimentation first
and then and then we could see what
works and then well well and also what
what the interface the API is is I think
it will coalesce cause over time I think
it's yeah obviously yeah we can have
multiple multiple providers for for
persistence which is like yeah it's a
service right this is this another thing
that I remembered and I think that Marko
already always speaks about this with me
but I I've never shared with with you
guys so the idea is that if you think
about how how you connect people you
have your friends and the friends your
friends have also their friends and the
friends also their friends and so on so
imagine if essentially each each person
will be able to provide storage ok a
small culture of course for each of your
friends or partial list of friends and
even a second-level deep of your friends
of your friends so if this was possible
and it existed nowadays we could
eventually create a persistent
implementation around this concept
concept where each user provides their
storage and and their storage will be
used to host stuff for for other other
users as well or the friends or of them
essentially these will actually be good
because it wouldn't require any any you
know external providers or storage that
is running on Amazon or anything else so
it will be using probably a BFS
underneath to provide the storage and
store the data
but we will be a good idea and this is
of course tight with identity concept
that that we think about in pure star
but imagine that when you create
identity you could connect to friends
via those interface and once you connect
your you're essentially able to provide
storage code for them and this will
provide or it will guarantee that the
data will somewhat to be accessible 21
24 hours 7 so this is just an idea of
course it's not something for now so
something that's I wanted to you know
point out so that's the current
persistent layer that is being developed
developed allow allow us to experiment
with these future concepts of of the
upcoming years that will probably tackle
on yeah there's the victor yushchenko
just just passing the link to a paper
from 97 from work cunningham which is an
architecture for this thing that that
your your yard is kind of a folk memory
or something it's also like prior art
well more recent priorities which is the
well not exactly this but this was
cuddle but secure scuttlebutt you have
the friend and they've up spots persists
and some of some of this it's not
exactly this but but you can like push
this data for a friend of a friend for
instance and you can do this
there's and III remember there's a p2p
file-sharing social network thing where
you where you guarantee that they're
like you offer to enter the network you
offer storage but the thing is like for
ipfs falcone solves the proof that you
provide the storage right so that that's
that's the whole goal of the project is
to for you to prove that that you
provided the storage so the proof here
is I think
if you require proof if you so if you're
traversing layers of friendship we start
losing a trust in the end then you start
needing needing needing proofs which is
I just mentioned mention it's just to
open
possibilities in the future and not and
create some kind of interface for the
persistent player that could be easily
iterated on and and it each of course
will be solid so that's a different
permutation could be easily implemented
but it's something that we probably want
to have from the phone to start going I
think I will I will comment on the pull
requests okay
there's there's only which i think is
just using the opportunity to like
collect information on what some of the
use cases people are looking for are
right i mean like one that happens to
appeal to me but may not appeal to other
people is i would have been reasonably
happy with a cloud with like having
amazon store my data instead of doing it
peer-to-peer because the encryption
would protect me and all of that the
problem is that if this service that's
connecting to amazon shuts down and I'm
not using IP FS then I can't move my
data somewhere else right so that's like
a very minimal server usage right that's
like a very minimal transition away from
server that just happens to have a bonus
but there are other there are other
mechanisms but that's gonna or other
strategies but that I think is talk to
people so for us to just like you know
when you see people talk to them and and
see if we can gather more information
about what people want to use this for
this is sort of a broad thing but I
think an architecture that I am seeing
the might evolve out of some of this
work is like we have make sure that like
fat clients that have like IP fasting
I'll search the features built into the
client and they're completely
independent and you can basically
default peer-to-peer networking with it
but I
time everyone sees their phones and they
don't they actually sort of want thin
software on their phones but there's
concepts such as service workers where
you can sort of have your thin client
but then you bundle a lot of the stuff
into the service worker we might want to
do that because we have multiple tabs in
there but then you've got things like
CloudFlare is using the service with
their model on in the cloud so you can
use the Service Worker API and put stuff
into the cloud I'm sort of wondering if
you can distribute like bundle build
your app with the service worker model
but then have may be additional
separately cloud service workers that
are personal to you your web browser but
they run detached in the cloud somewhere
this is a certain crazy crazy talk but
I'm sort of thinking this sort of model
would actually make a lot of sense I
don't think it's that crazy I mean I
think that's kind of what in figureA is
doing right
and I think I think it's it's mandatory
to have it like like like that in the in
a mobile world because we don't have
that much storage and capacity to you
know host stuff and and if you think
about the websites that you have visited
on the on the iPhone you just imagine if
if it's decentralized right now it will
be your storage will be completely full
and we will have to have a strategy
evict all the entries or use the entries
and so on so I think having a thin
client like like Jim said it's it's
something that's we should think about
it so as I said this is a complex topic
we need to I think we need to come up
with a document somewhere to point out
our our requirements our concerns and
construct some solutions that will solve
different points and some others we will
probably don't solve those some of those
problems and perhaps we could converse
into something I think would be it will
be good
just one last yeah usually we should I
mean we're way over time so we should
probably wrap this up but just this one
one one last one point is often first
thing clients and offline first are at
war it's all always this and lot of
storage capacity is increasing so the
edges are getting fatter but still but
but also the apps are getting more
demanding so yeah yeah my point was that
this discussion that we're having right
now is very productive in very very
interesting I think we should just
proceed persist it somewhere so that we
could you can discuss it and and and you
know have a snapshot of the discussion
somewhere
[Laughter]
I can do that I can do like like I'll
have to review the video and then and
then just just put a snapchat of this
conversation on that on github on a
video of issue and then we can we can
take the call from that I think it's
like a long-running discussion probably
belongs to ipfs notes or or research or
something like that but I think it's
really with also to take away points
right so one is your your comments on
other's work and and sorry generalizing
interface for the the persistent service
and the other one is like evolution of
this in not not a new future right cool
any last comments
messages for okay so I'm going to wrap
this up we're way over time thank you
for for coming
so we'll keep in touch
throughout these two weeks if not seeing
two weeks right right okay thank you